Materials and MethodsAll animal experiments were approved by the Government of Upper Bavaria (permit numbers 55.2-1-54-2531-26-04 and 55.2-1-54-2531-9-09) and performed according to the European Union Normative for Care and Use of Experimental Animals. Chemical reagents were obtained from Sigma unless otherwise indicated.Gene targeting vectorThe vector IgME1, used for ZFN-mediated targeted replacement, comprised a 0.758 kb homologous arm extending upstream of IgM exon 1 on the 5′ side, and a 1.035 kb arm extending downstream of IgM exon 1 to the end of exon 3 on the 3′ side, separated by a PGK neo polyA cassette (see Figure 3 and Figure S2). Homologous sequences were obtained by PCR from genomic DNA from a ZIKA rabbit.In-vitro mRNA transcriptionSynthetic capped and poly A-tailed mRNAs were transcribed in vitro and purified using mMESSAGE mMACHINE T7 Ultra and MEGAclear Kits (Ambion). The quality and concentration of mRNAs were verified by denaturing gel analysis and spectrophotometry.Microinjection of ZFN mRNA and targeting vector DNAAnimals used as oocyte donors for the gene inactivation experiments were homozogous Alicia/homozogous Basilea back-crossed for several generations onto the ZIKA background. Alicia (Ali) rabbits carry a natural deletion within the IgH locus [48] and homozygous Basilea (Bas) animals do not express Igκ, due to a non-functional splice acceptor [49]. ZIKA rabbits were used as oocyte donors for the gene replacement experiments. Pronuclear stage fertilized oocytes were obtained by flushing oviducts 21 to 24 hrs from female rabbits superovulated by PMSG (Intergonan; Intervet) and hCG (Ovogest; Intervet) injection, inseminated artificially or by natural cover.Microinjected oocytes were either cultured to blastocyst stage, or allowed to rest for 1 hr then transferred laparoscopically [50] to foster mothers primed by intramuscular injection of 0.2 ml Receptal (Intervet) 3 to 7 hrs previously. Pregnancies were either terminated at day 15 to examine fetuses, or allowed to proceed to term. Offspring were delivered normally and their genotype was determined at approximately 3 weeks of age.Detection of ZFN-induced gene inactivation and homologous recombination at the IgM locusDNA was prepared from blastocysts by lysis in 50 mM KCl, 1.5 mM MgCl2, 10 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 0.5% NP40, 0.5% Tween20 and 100 µg proteinase K; or by lysis in 8 µl 50 mM NaOH (10 min 95°C; 2 µl 1 M Tris, pH 7.5 then added for neutralization); and from fetal tissue or ear biopsies of offspring by standard methods. Rabbit Cµ was amplified by PCR using primer pairs E1.1f (TGG CAG GGA CAC AGG AAA ACA) and E1.1r (GGC TCA CCG GGA AAG GAC); or E1.2f (GGC TGC CTG GCG CGG GAC TTT CT) and E1.2r (CTG TTG CTG TTG CTG TGC TGG ACT TTG) for exon1 and E2.1f (GGC TGC CTG GCG CGG GAC TTT C) and E2.1r (CCT GGC CTG GGG ACT GGA CAC TCA CT) or E2.2f (TGC CAG GCC ACA GGT TTC) and E2.2r (CTC GGA GGA CAT GGA CAC GTT CTT ATC) for exon 2. Nested PCRs from blastocysts were performed using the two primer pairs specific for exon 1 or 2 consecutively. PCR products containing mutated sequences detected by DNA sequence chromatography were cloned into the TOPO TA cloning kit (Invitrogen) for DNA sequencing of ZFN-induced mutations.Targeted insertion of the PGK neo gene was detected by PCR across the 5′ junction using primers targF4 (GCT GTA CAG AGG TGA ACT GGG CTG GTC TTA) and targR4 (CCG CTG TAA GTC TGC AGA AAT TGA TGA TCT) and across the 3′ junction using primers targF2 (CGG AGA ACC TGC GTG CAA TCC ATC T) and targR2 (TGG GCA GAG AGA AGG TGG TGA GCC T). Southern hybridization of 10 µg samples of genomic DNA was performed with a digoxigenin dUTP labeled probe and detected by chemiluminescence using standard methods.Detection of rabbit IgM and IgG in serumSerum antibody concentrations from animals between 7 and 15 weeks of age were determined by ELISA on streptavidin pre-coated 96 well microtiter plates (Micro Coat Biotechnologie, Germany). Capture was by anti-rabbit-IgM (μ-chain) or anti-rabbit-IgG (Fc) biotin (624085 and 550326, BD Pharmingen); detection used mouse anti-rabbit IgM or IgG horseradish peroxidase (BD Pharmingen).FACS analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of wild type and knockout rabbitsPBMCs were isolated from whole blood samples using separation media (Lympholyte-Mammal; Cedarlane) according to the manufacturer's instruction and stained and analysed immediately. For single colour flow cytometry, 5×105 PBMCs were distributed as 50 µl aliquots in 1.5 ml tubes and kept on ice. Anti-rabbit IgG FITC was obtained from AbD Serotec (Düsseldorf, Germany). Anti-rabbit IgM biotin was from BD Pharmingen (San Diego, USA). FITC labelled streptavidin and anti-mouse IgM phycoerythrin (PE) conjugate were from Invitrogen (Germany). The monoclonal antibody RACT30A, which detects an unidentified rabbit B-cell surface marker [25], was obtained from VMRD (Pullman, USA). The PE-labelled antibody (clone HM47, BD Pharmingen), which binds the highly conserved intracellular domain of human CD79a (component of the B cell receptor) cross-reacts with rabbit CD79a [26]. For intracellular staining, PBMCs were fixed with Cytofix and permeabilised with Perm/Wash (BD Pharmingen) as mentioned in the instructions from the manufacturer. PBMC aliquots were incubated with 50 µl fluorochrome labelled mAbs or streptavidin in PBS for 30 min under rotation at 4°C in the dark. PBMCs were washed twice with ice cold PBS, resuspended in ice cold PBS and subjected to FACS analysis. For all surface staining, propidium iodide at a concentration of 5 µg/ml (BD Pharmingen, USA) was added prior to FACS analysis to discriminate between live and dead cells. 10,000 live PBMCs were analysed per sample. A FACSAria flow cytometer equipped with a computer and FACSDiva software (Becton Dickinson) was used to collect and analyse the data, FACS gates used are shown in each panel of Figure 2.