Materials and MethodsSynthesis of TPBIAKey step of the synthesis was a Mukaiyama type aldol condensation between the dimethyl acetal of 1-(p-toluenesulfonyl)pyrrole-3-acetaldehyde and 4-di-n-propylamino-1-trimethylsilyloxycyclohexene followed by cycloaromatization under acidic conditions. A detailed description of the procedures can be found elsewhere [18]. TPBIA was isolated as its hydrochloride salt. It was a white crystalline solid with melting point of 209–211°C. The salt was soluble in water in contrast to its free base form.Experimental AnimalsAdult male Fischer-344 rats (~250 g) were used.The experimental animals were grouped as:i. Group A: Untreated rats: TPBIA was administered i.p. in various doses and immediately afterwards the rats were placed individually in the activity cage and their motor behavior was recorded for the next 30 min.ii. Group B: Apomorphine-treated rats: the motor activity was measured as described above in the rats treated with apomorphine (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) 10 min after the administration of TPBIA.Biological Experimental Procedurein vivoThe experiments were conducted according to a previous reported methodology [15]. TPBIA was converted to its hydrochloride salt and dissolved in water. Apomorphine was dissolved in 1 mM citric acid solution. The motor activity of the rats was measured between 12-6 pm in an Ugo-Basile activity cage (type 7401) (Figure 2).Figure 2The Ugo-Basile activity cage (type 7401)in vitroThe antioxidant potential of TPBIA was investigated in the model of in vitro non enzymatic lipid peroxidation [19].The experiments were conducted according to a previous reported methodology [15]. Hepatic microsomal fractions prepared from untreated male Fischer-344 rats were heat-inactivated (90°C, 90 s) and suspended in Tris-HCl/KCl buffer (50 mM/150 mM, pH 7.4). The incubation mixtures contained the microsomal fraction, corresponding to 0.125 g liver mL-1, ascorbic acid (0.2 mM) in Tris buffer, and various concentrations (0.01–1 mM) of the tested compounds dissolved in DMSO. An equal volume of the solvent (0.1 mL) was added to the control incubate. The reaction was initiated by adding freshly prepared FeSO4 solution (10 μM). The mixture was incubated at 37°C for 45 min. Aliquots (0.3 mL) of the incubation mixture (final volume 4 mL) were taken at various time intervals. Lipid peroxidation was assayed spectrophotometrically (535 nm against 600 nm) by determination of the 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive material.Antioxidants inhibit the production of malondialdehyde and, therefore, the color produced after addition of 2-thiobarbituric acid is less intense. None of the compounds interfered with the assay, neither with the conjugation of 2-thiobarbituric acid or with the absorption at 535–600 nm. Each experiment was performed at least in duplicate. The UV measurements were carried out on a Perkin-Elmer 554 spectrophotometer.