IntroductionSpartina Schreb. (cordgrass) is a small grass genus of some fifteen species native to North America, South America, and the Atlantic coasts of Europe and Africa occurring in such coastal habitats as intertidal mud flats, estuaries, salt marshes, and inland in marshes, sloughs and dry prairie. Spartina includes several globally invasive species (e.g., Spartina alterniflora Loisel., Spartina anglica C.E. Hubb., Spartina densiflora Brongn.) that are rapidly altering salt marsh and estuary ecosystems (e.g., Grosholz et al. 2009, Strong and Ayres 2009) and is an important model system for studying allopolyploid speciation and the relationship between hybridization, polyploidy, and invasion (Ainouche et al. 2004a, 2004b, 2009, Baumel et al. 2002a, Salmon et al. 2005, Fortune et al. 2007, 2008, Parisod et al. 2009, Chelaifa et al. 2010). Consequently, a large and broad body of biological, genetic, and ecological knowledge on cordgrasses has been generated. Nevertheless, identification of Spartina species can be challenging, as several are morphologically similar and rapidly expanding their ranges into new areas in which up-to-date taxonomic resources for the genus are not available. This is the situation in the Pacific Northwest of North America (Oregon, Washington, British Columbia), where five Spartina species are invading coastal areas (Spartina alterniflora, Spartina anglica, Spartina densiflora, Spartina patens (Aiton) Muhl., Spartina ×townsendii H. Groves & J. Groves).This taxonomic study was prompted by difficulties encountered in determining recent herbarium collections of invasive Spartina from British Columbia. Existing regional taxonomic resources do not include all taxa known in the province (Hitchcock et al. 1969, Douglas et al. 2001, Kozloff 2005) since several species are new or recent invaders, and continent-wide treatments (Barkworth 2003) were found initially to be unsatisfactory to use in this taxonomically difficult grass genus. Since Spartina invasions are causing serious ecological damage on the Pacific coast, there has been considerable effort to develop information sources for field-based identification, probably in response to a lack of easy-to-use and easy-to-access locally relevant information in the scientific literature, in combination with an urgent need for information to facilitate Spartina identification by as broad a user group as possible to minimize the impacts of the invasions. These mostly emphasize vegetative characteristics easy to observe in the field, such as plant height, blade width and height, leaf color, and plant habit (e.g., Anonymous no date, 2009, Pfauth and Sytsma 1998, O’Connell 2005, Eissinger 2008) but, unfortunately, none of these are among the best taxonomic characters to identify Spartina species with confidence, particularly those that are closely related. Several of these resources do not clearly list authors, publication dates or places other than websites, and they do not identify the original sources (e.g., floras, the primary literature, herbarium specimens) from which the information was derived.The purpose of this paper is to provide up-to-date taxonomic information for specimen-based identification of Spartina species in the Pacific Northwest. Although field-based identification of invasive Spartina taxa is possible, reliable determinations should be made or confirmed from specimens, as most of the diagnostic characters require magnification and careful, accurate measurements. Specimens should be deposited in herbaria, where they become part of the scientific record, are available for study by other scientists, and document the distributions of species in time and space. Voucher specimens for invasive plants such as Spartina are particularly important, as they provide the raw materials from which reliable and repeatable identifications can be made, and they contribute to long-term understanding of the distribution and spread of these new invaders. Unfortunately, herbaria often have relatively few specimens of weedy species, a situation recently documented for noxious weeds in Washington (Zika 2006). Accordingly, there are relatively few herbarium specimens for invasive Spartina taxa in the Pacific Northwest, despite considerable efforts to eradicate Spartina infestations (e.g., Hedge et al. 2003), effectively representing the collection of hundreds to thousands of plants.Here, I present a taxonomic synopsis of the two native and five introduced taxa of Spartina known from British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon (Spartina alterniflora, Spartina anglica, Spartina densiflora, Spartina gracilis Trin., Spartina patens, Spartina pectinata Link, and Spartina ×townsendii). I provide a new taxonomic key for the region, nomenclature for all taxa, including previously unpublished details on several type specimens and new lectotypifications, references to published illustrations that clearly show diagnostic characters, specimen citations, and notes on how to distinguish the taxa. New descriptions are given for the closely related and morphologically similar taxa Spartina alterniflora, Spartina anglica, and Spartina ×townsendii, and the aggressively invading Spartina densiflora, which has recently appeared in British Columbia. Spartina ×townsendii is newly reported from British Columbia. The descriptions and keys are based on study of specimens collected within and outside the region, in consultation with the global primary and secondary taxonomic literature; these data should be useful for distinguishing the taxa wherever they occur globally, including in Alaska where Spartina has not been reported but is anticipated to become a problem in the future (Morgan and Sytsma 2010). I also include detailed reviews of the evolutionary origins and introduction histories of the invasive Spartina taxa, with a focus on their introductions in British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon. To facilitate species identification, images of exemplar herbarium specimens of each taxon are included in the main text, and images of fifty herbarium specimens (a subset of the material examined) are included as supplementary information.Higher-level classification of SpartinaSpartina is a member of the grass subfamily Chloridoideae Kunth ex Beilschm., one of six major lineages (subfamilies) in the grass PACMAD clade, which also includes the subfamilies Panicoideae Link, Arundinoideae Burmeist., Micrairoideae Pilg., Aristidoideae Caro and Danthonioideae H.P.Linder & N.P.Barker (reviewed in Saarela and Graham 2010). Chloridoideae includes some 1420 species in approximately 140 genera (Peterson et al. 2010). In the most recent classification of Chloridoideae, Spartina is included in the tribe Zoyseae Benth., a lineage characterized by glabrous culm nodes, ligules that are a line of hairs or a fringed membrane, bisexual spikelets that are laterally compressed (or terete, rarely dorsiventrally compressed), spikelets with a single floret, lower glumes nerveless or 1-veined, lemmas 1- or 3-veined and awnless, ovaries glabrous, a base chromosome number of x = 7–10, and a preference for saline habitats (Peterson et al. 2007, 2010). Zoyseae includes the incertae sedis genus Urochondra C.E. Hubb. and the subtribes Zoysiinae Benth. (one genus, Zoysia Willd.) and Sporobolinae Benth. Sporobolinae is characterized by spikelets oriented abaxially along the axis with the lemma facing the rachis, lemmas that are similar in texture to the glumes, paleas that are relatively long and approximately equal in length to the lemma, and free (reluctantly free in Spartina) pericarps (Peterson et al. 2007). Sporobolinae includes the large polyphyletic genus Sporobolus R.Br.(some 200 species; Simon et al. 2011) in which the genera Calamovilfa (A. Gray) Hack. ex Scribn. & Southw., Crypsis Aiton, Pogoneura Napper, and Spartina are embedded – a phylogenetic structure that has been identified in multiple molecular studies (e.g., Hilu and Alice 2001, Columbus et al. 2007, Peterson et al. 2010). Peterson et al. (2010) recommended future expansion of Sporobolus to include all of these genera, including the monophyletic Spartina, reflecting their origins from within the Sporobolus line. If (or more likely, when) these nomenclatural changes are proposed, species currently treated in Spartina would be treated as species of Sporobolus, more accurately reflecting our understanding of the evolutionary history of these grasses and their closest relatives.Spartina in North AmericaTaxonomic revisions of Spartina have been produced by Merrill (1902), Saint-Yves (1932) and Mobberley (1956), the latter being the most recent and comprehensive, though it does not cite the specimens examined during the study. Mobberley (1956) recognized some fifteen taxa in the genus, including three native to the Old World (Spartina anglica, Spartina maritima (Curtis) Fernald, Spartina townsendii), and the remainder native to the New World. There are thirteen species of Spartina in North America, of which nine are native (including one natural hybrid), and four are introduced (Mobberley 1956, Barkworth 2003). They are distributed in low to high intertidal marsh (brackish), inland brackish and freshwater habitats and dry prairie, and have been classified ecologically by habitat as low marsh, high marsh, and freshwater (Maricle et al. 2009). Marsh taxa include the native species Spartina alterniflora, Spartina patens, Spartina bakeri Merr. (sand cordgrass), Spartina spartinae (Trin.) Merr. (gulf cordgrass) and Spartina foliosa Trin. (California cordgrass), and the introduced species Spartina anglica, Spartina ×townsendii and Spartina densiflora. Freshwater/inland taxa include Spartina cynosuroides (L.) Roth (big cordgrass), Spartina gracilis, Spartina pectinata, and the hybrid taxon Spartina ×caespitosa A.A. Eaton (mixed cordgrass; Spartina patens × S. pectinata).Spartina has a base chromosome number of x = 10, and all species are polyploids (e.g., Marchant 1963, 1986b, Ayres et al. 2008, Fortune et al. 2008, Renny-Byfield et al. 2010). Phylogenetic analyses based on two nuclear (ITS and Waxy) and one plastid locus identified two major lineages in the genus, one comprising the tetraploid (2n = 40) species Spartina patens, Spartina gracilis, Spartina ciliata Brongn., Spartina pectinata, Spartina cynosuroides, Spartina bakeri, and Spartina arundinacea (Thouars) Carmich., and the other comprising the hexaploid (2n = 60, 62) species Spartina alterniflora, Spartina foliosa, and Spartina maritima (Curtis) Fernald (Baumel et al. 2002b). In this analysis one tetraploid species, Spartina argentinensis Parodi, was sister to the hexaploid clade, and placement of the heptaploid Spartina densiflora (2n = 70, Ayres et al. 2008, Fortune et al. 2008) differed among data partitions (Baumel et al. 2002b). A subsequent phylogenetic study, based on extensive cloning of the low copy nuclear gene Waxy, focused on the hexaploid taxa and revealed a more complicated phylogeny, and an allopolyploid origin for the hexaploid clade was proposed (Fortune et al. 2007). Further phylogenetic study of Spartina densiflora revealed the taxon to be of hybrid origin involving lineages related to the tetraploid species Spartina arundinacea and the hexaploid clade (Fortune et al. 2008).